They will come back.
So this section is called functions part 2.
It's much smaller and more focused than the original function section which kind of covered a ton of
material was longer and more sprawling.
This is going to be more concise and focused on just a couple of new topics.
So let's start with our objectives like always just to this time.
First we want to use the star and double star operator as parameters to a function and outside of a
function.
So that may not make any sense whatsoever at this point but we'll get there.
And then we also want to leverage dictionary and tuple unpacking to create more flexible functions.
So earlier I think to Section 2 or section to go I mentioned we'll learn more about dictionary unpacking.
Well we're learning about it in this section.
Let's start though in this video by talking about the single star OPERATOR And what it means in regards
to functions and parameters often called Star args.
It's just a special operator.
We can pass to her functions as a parameter and it will gather all remaining arguments as a tuple.
So just a single parameter we can call it whatever we want as long as it starts with a star.
So I'll show you you know some other names you could use but the standard name is Star args but it's
not the only way you can use it.
So what has to be there is the star.
And then what comes after args is conventional but we can talk about some other options.
So to reiterate what it does we have a function definition.
If we put start args as a parameter it will collect any number of additional or extra arguments that
have been passed in into a single parameter called args or whatever we name this.
So it's always good to look at an example to help illustrate what I'm talking about.
Make it a bit less abstract.
Let's say we want to define a function called some all names and with what we know right now we get
hard code in one two three as many as we wanted and in here if we just wanted to return the sum it would
be return one plus two plus three and so on and we would call it by doing some or all numbers and then
I would pass in let's say 4 6 and 9 and we would expect to get 19 back.
Let's just verify that that works.
Oh well we're not printing anything out.
Try that again.
OK.
We get 19.
So that should all be review.
But what's different or what I want and be different about this function is I want to be able to pass
in any number of numbers after this and have them all be added together.
And to do that with what we know right now I would have to define another parameter called for and another
one called num 5.
How many do we have here.
One two three four five six seven and I'm just going to delete those and just go down to one two three
four or five.
So we could do this.
But then there's a limitation We'd also need to fix this right.
Do name four plus five.
But what if I only passed in four and six.
And yeah I guess technically we could do this and give them default values of zero so that we're adding
0 onto the end if only two of them are passed in.
And that's sort of a hacky workaround but it still doesn't work.
If you want to pass in ten arguments instead of five.
So this is where star args comes in.
I'm going to get rid of all of this everything actually.
And I'm just going to write a single parameter called Star args.
And again this could be anything star names.
I'm going to call it args so that's standard.
And inside of here let's just start by printing ARX.
So we refer to the parameter without the start inside the function.
It's just that we need the star in the function definition.
So I should print args and let's just see what we get.
You can see this is a tuple right here and also right here.
So args is a tuple containing all of the arguments that we pass in.
In this case all of them.
So if we wanted to make some all Nom's work using this we just need to iterate through the tuple.
So that will just be for now in args and let's make a total variable total is equal to zero.
And then we'll just do total plus equals numb and then at the end we will return numb or total excuse
me.
So this also is very similar to what we've seen before except now rather than passing in a list.
These are all individual arguments.
And this code works with two arguments with 20 or with 100 numbers passed in.
But see if it works we get 33 and 10.
So this should be 33 and that should be 10.
It's working.
It's worth pointing out that we can pass in other parameters so I could have number one comma star args
and we can print number one just to show you that you know in this case it doesn't really make sense
when are summing all the numbers together.
They're all the same at the end of the day.
But we can still have individual parameters that are named and then have our star args afterwards.
So if we run this now we get 4 and 4 and then 5:31 and the addition is different because we're no longer
adding in four because we're just pulling for and printing it and then looping through the rest.
OK so I'll leave it at that.
Let's get rid of this and go back to our initial version.
The example is also in the slides.
If you want to take a look and I have another example in the slides It's called ensure correct info.
And I use star args again and also show after this.
This didn't have to be named args.
All it does is it checks if Colt is in args and steel is in args remember args is a tuple.
So it's checking if that table contains.
It basically it means if any arguments were passed that were colt and steal both of them were passed
in like in this case will print or we'll return.
Welcome back colt.
Otherwise we're just going to return.
Not sure who you are.
So the effect of this one is we can pass in as many arguments as we want but there has to be a cult
has to be still in there somewhere in order to print this or return this.
Any other arguments in there if they don't contain these two then we just return.
Not sure who you are.
So I have the same code just copied over to a file and I'm just going to print args up top and let's
run it twice.
So this time there's no arguments being passed in and this time there are four arguments all in the
args tuple and you can see the first time it's an empty tuple second time it has these four items it's
now rather than just printing.
Let's look at what we get by printing the result of executing printing the return value.
And rather than just passing it nothing let's do hello and false.
And how about 78.
What do we expect.
Well args will this time contain three items.
But it doesn't contain colt or steel and we have to have both of those in order to return.
Welcome back colt.
Also notice we don't need an else here this is that whole short circuiting thing where if you use a
return statement in a conditional You don't have to use an else because the only way to get here is
for this to be false because this return will quit.
But let's try it.
We get not sure who you are.
And welcome back.
Cold OK.
Last thing I'll mention.
We can change this.
Actually I'm going to go over to Sam and instead of star arge we can call it names and then we just
change this for nomine.
So the star has to be there but otherwise it doesn't have to be called args.
Let's just make sure it still works.
So that was called some still looks good.
Cool.